GPS Diagnostic is a tool to test GPS performance on BlackBerry devices.

Mode: A mode must be selected before running the test. (m) stands for multiple fix with a LocationListener. (s) stands for single fix where LocationProvider.getLocation() is used under the hood.                          

Map Location: BlackBerry Maps must be installed on the device for this to work. When selected, the BlackBerry Maps application is invoked to show the fixes on an actual map. You can also specify the zoom level used in BlackBerry Maps.                              

Pref'd Response Time: It is STRONGLY recommended that you do not change this value from 16. This needs to be specified in seconds. Preferred Response Time determines how much time the GPS chip will spend searching for satellites and how deep the gps search should be. Must be > 0 and < = 16.

Fix Frequency (sec): Applies to multiple fix mode only. This is the interval at which the LocationListener will try to get a fix. -1 will force the default value.

Timeout (sec): Applies to multiple fix modes only. This timeout value indicates how many seconds late the provided update is allowed to be compared to the defined interval. If it's not possible to get a new location result (interval + timeout) seconds after the previous update, the update will be made and an invalid Location instance will be returned. -1 will force the default value.

MaxAge (sec): The maxAge parameter defines how old the provided location result is allowed to be when the update is made. This allows the implementation to reuse location results if it has a recent location result when the update is due to be delivered. -1 will force the default value.

Failover mode: The failover mode is the mode the GPS chipset will use if the GPS chipset returned an error while using the selected mode. This is applicable when using Internal GPS only and not BlueTooth GPS.

Max Retries: The maximum number of GPS retries (using the selected mode) before a failover happens. A retry is triggered when the GPS chipset reports a failure. The retry value can only be between 0 and 3.

Failover Timeout: the maximum wait time (in seconds) to get a fix before a failover occurs. The range of timeout value is between 30 to 300 seconds.                            

GPS Restart Interval?: This option allows the user to set the GPS restart interval. The restart interval is the amount of time the JSR179 extension will wait before it automatically restarts GPS after a failure.

Restart Interval: The time (in seconds) the JSR179 extension will wait before automatically restarting GPS. The interval ranges between 2 and 900 seconds.

Restart Retries: The maximum number of GPS restarts. This value ranges from 1 to 3.

Subsequent Mode: This option allows an application to set the GPS mode to use after a successful first fix. This is applicable when using Internal GPS only and not BlueTooth GPS.

Satellite Information Required: This option allows an application to indicate whether it requires Satellite tracking information. This is applicable when using Internal GPS only and not BlueTooth GPS.

Verizon?: If selected, the application will allow the user to enter a Verizon Client ID and password. Other CDMA carriers require a PDE IP and a PORT.

PDE IP: The IP address of the PDE server.

PDE Port: The port of the PDE server.

Client ID: Client ID provided by Verizon.

Password: Password provided by Verizon.

Current Mode: Displays the mode of the last valid fix.

Satellite Signal: Displays the average signal strength of all visible satellites.

Data Source: Displays the data source used to get the current fix. e.g. bluetooth, internal, etc.

Error: Displays the error (if any) for the current fix.

Status: Displays the status of the current fix.                         

Total Updates: Number of updates received in the current test run.

Assisted Updates: Number of assisted updates received in the current test run.

Unassisted Updates : Number of unassisted updates received in the current test run.

Valid Updates: Number of valid updates received in the current test run.

Invalid Updates: The number of updates in which the Location object had invalid coordinates.

Location: Coordinates of the last valid fix.

Last Valid Fix: Time of the last valid fix.

Last Reset: Time of the last LocationProvider reset.

Log: Logs generated by this application. Only the last 1000 charectars are displayed here. The complete log should appear in the eventlog which can be displayed by pressing ALT+LGLG from the BlackBerry device home screen.
        
